Duck Typing
Duck types are public interfaces that are not tied to any specific class. (access-class interfaces)
(i.e. Duck typing detaches public interfaces from specific classes, creating virtual types)

"if an object quacks like a duck and walks like a duck, then its class is immaterial - it's a duck."
If an object walks like a duck and talks like a duck, then the interpreter is happy to treat it as if it were a duck.

In a dynamic language, like Ruby or Python, as long as the object we're passing to the function has the method 'quack' (i.e. talks like a duck), we're good to go - no need for boilerplate code.

Duck typing - the type of an object is defined by what the object can do. (what it responds to)
(type is a term to describe the category of the contents of a variable)
(variables are references to object's location in memory)

Note: can call #respond_to? on an object to ask if it can do something. (Though see below)

Recognizing hidden Ducks
The following indicate the presence of a hidden duck:  (and show a lock of trust in collaborating objects)
 - Case statements that switch on class
 - #kind_of? and #is_a?
 - #responds_to?

"flexible applications are built on objects that operate on trust."

"Duck typing reveals underlying abstractions that might otherwise be invisible. Depending on these abstractions reduces risk and increases felxibility, making your application cheaper to maintain and easier to change."


Monkey Patching
- changing base classes is known as monkey patching.

Implementing duck types across youe own classes is one thing, but changing Ruby base classes to introduce new duck types is quite another. The tradeoffs are different, the rists are greater.
"Neither of these considerations should prevent you from monkey patching Ruby at need;"
however, you must be able to eloquently defend this design decision.
The standard of proof is high.


Duck Typing Summary
Duck typing is built on dynmaic typing.
Messages are at the center of OO applications, and they pass among objects along public interfaces.
Duck typing detaches these from specific classes, creating virtual types that are defined by what they do (instead of who they are).
Duck typing reveals underlying abstractions that might otherwise be invisible. Depending on these abstractions reduces risk and increases flexibility, making your application cheaper to maintain and easier to change.
